# Understanding and Predicting Derailment in Toxic Conversations on GitHub

## Overview

This project aims to understand and predict derailment in toxic conversations on GitHub. It evaluates the performance of different models on derailed and representative datasets. The datasets, model outputs, and analysis scripts are organized into the following directories and files.

## Directory Structure

### dataset
This directory contains the datasets used in the project.

- **derailed_toxic_coversations.csv**: Dataset of derailed toxic conversations.
- **non_derailed_toxic_coversations.csv**: Dataset of non-derailed toxic conversations.
- **representative_conversations.csv**: Dataset of representative conversations.

### prompt_outputs
This directory contains the outputs generated by various models for the given prompts.

- **hua_et_al_scd_gpt_4o_derail.csv**: Outputs of the prompt from Hua et al. using GPT-4o on the derailed dataset.
- **hua_et_al_scd_gpt_4o_representative.csv**: Outputs of the prompt from Hua et al. using GPT-4o on the representative dataset.
- **ltm_gpt_4o_derailed.csv**: Outputs of the Least to Most prompt using GPT-4o on the derailed dataset.
- **ltm_gpt_4o_representative.csv**: Outputs of the Least to Most prompt using GPT-4o on the representative dataset.
- **modified_hua_et_al_few_shot_gpt_4o_derail.csv**: Outputs of the modified Hua et al. few-shot prompt using GPT-4o on the derailed dataset.
- **modified_hua_et_al_few_shot_gpt_4o_representative.csv**: Outputs of the modified Hua et al. few-shot prompt using GPT-4o on the representative dataset.

### prompts
This directory contains the prompts used to generate the model outputs.

- **prompts.md**: Markdown file containing all the prompts used in the analysis.

### scripts
This directory contains scripts used for data generation and analysis.

- **SCD-Generation.py**: Python script for generating data using the SCD method.


### Error Analysis
This directory contains the results of the error analysis.

- **Error Analysis - On Derailed Toxic Dataset.csv**: Contains the error analysis results on the derailed toxic dataset.
- **Error Analysis - On Representative Dataset.csv**: Contains the error analysis results on the representative dataset.
